 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001757
 * *Label* = pinna
 * *Definition* = Visible part of the ear that resides outside of the head. The purpose of the pinna is to collect sound. It does so by acting as a funnel, amplifying the sound and directing it to the ear canal. While reflecting from the pinna, sound also goes through a filtering process which adds directional information to the sound (see sound localization, head-related transfer function, pinna notch). The filtering effect of the human pinna preferentially selects sounds in the frequency range of human speech. In various species, the pinna can also signal mood and radiate heat.

## Synonyms

 * auricle
 * auricle of ear
 * auricle of external ear
 * auricula
 * auricula (auris externa)
 * pinna of ear
 * pinnae

## Superclasses

 * [subdivision of head](../../UBERON/44/UBERON_0001444.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [external ear](../../UBERON/91/UBERON_0001691.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = The external expanded part of the ear characterized by a funnel-shaped structure through which the sound vibrations are received. [Dorian_AF, Elsevier's_encyclopaedic_dictionary_of_medicine, Part_B:_Anatomy_(1988)_Amsterdam_etc.:_Elsevier][VHOG]
 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = Mammals have a third type of tympanic ear. An external flap, the auricle or pinna, helps funnel sound waves down the external acoustic meatus to the tympanic membrane.[well established][VHOG]
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EHDAA2:0001467
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EMAPA:17589
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EV:0100355
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:56580
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = MA:0000259
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = OpenCyc:Mx4rvs_VC5wpEbGdrcN5Y29ycA
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = SCTID:421159007
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = UMLS:C0928075
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = VHOG:0000460
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = Wikipedia:Pinna_(anatomy)
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = galen:Auricle
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ncithesaurus:Auricle
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0001757
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## External Comments

