 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0002707
 * *Label* = pyramidal tract
 * *Definition* = The corticospinal or pyramidal tract is a collection of axons that travel between the cerebral cortex of the brain and the spinal cord. The corticospinal tract mostly contains motor axons. It actually consists of two separate tracts in the spinal cord: the lateral corticospinal tract and the medial corticospinal tract. An understanding of these tracts leads to an understanding of why for the most part, one side of the body is controlled by the opposite side of the brain. Also the corticobulbar tract is considered to be a pyramidal tract. The corticobulbar tract carries signals that control motor neurons located in cranial nerve brain nuclei rather than motor neurons located in the spinal cord. The neurons of the pyramidal tracts are pyramidal neurons, but that is not how the pyramidal tract got its name, as most of the pyramidal neurons send their axons elsewhere. Instead, it got its name from the shape of the corticospinal axon tracts: when the pyramidal tract passes the medulla, it forms a dense bundle of nerve fibres that is shaped somewhat like a pyramid. [WP,unvetted].

## Synonyms

 * tractus corticospinalis
 * Pyramidal tract, crossed
 * corticospinal fibers
 * corticospinal tract
 * corticospinal tract
 * fasciculus cerebro-spinalis
 * fasciculus pyramidalis
 * fibrae corticospinales
 * pyramid (Willis)
 * tractus cortico-spinalis
 * tractus corticospinalis
 * tractus pyramidalis

## Superclasses

 * [axon tract](../../UBERON/18/UBERON_0001018.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [white matter](../../UBERON/16/UBERON_0002316.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[has_alternative_id](../../Id/oboInOwl#hasAlternativeId.md)* = UBERON:0004095
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BAMS:P
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BAMS:py
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BM:CST
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BM:Me-PyT
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:72634
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = GAID:702
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = MESH:A08.186.854.633
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = NIF_GrossAnatomy:birnlex_1464
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = NeuroNames:800
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = SCTID:362325000
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = UMLS:C0034229
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = Wikipedia:Pyramidal_tracts
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/ac/Gray684.png/200px-Gray684.png
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0002707
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## External Comments

