
## Class : sphincter pupillae

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001607
 * *Label* = sphincter pupillae
 * *Definition* = The iris sphincter muscle (pupillary sphincter, circular muscle of iris, circular fibers) is a muscle in the part of the eye called the iris. It encircles the eye, appropriate to its function as a constrictor. It is found in vertebrates and some cephalopods. In humans, it functions to constrict the pupil in bright light or during accommodation. Its dimensions are about 0.75 mm wide by 0.15 mm thick. It is controlled by parasympathetic fibers that originate from the Edinger-Westphal nucleus, travel along the oculomotor nerve (CN III), synapse in the ciliary ganglion, and then enter the eye via the short ciliary nerves. Initially, all the myocytes are of the smooth muscle type, but much later in life, so that ultimately most cells are of the striated muscle type. [WP,unvetted].
 * *Comment* = Taxon notes: WP says: It is found in vertebrates and some cephalopods; this class refers to the vertebrate structure. Function notes: constricts iris

## Synonyms

 * M. sphincter pupillae
 * iris sphincter muscle
 * musculus sphincter pupillae
 * sphincter muscle of pupil
 * circular fibers
 * constrictor pupillae
 * iris constrictor
 * iris constrictor muscle
 * iris sphincter
 * m. sphincter pupillae
 * pupillary constrictor muscle
 * pupillary sphincter
 * pupillary sphincter muscle
 * sphincter pupillae
 * sphincter pupillae muscle
 * spincter pupillae

## Cross-references

 * BTO:0000656
 * FMA:49157
 * MA:0001289
 * SCTID:280889004
 * UMLS:C0229189
 * Wikipedia:Iris_sphincter_muscle
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/2/2f/Gray878.png
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/2/2f/Gray878.png/200px-Gray878.png
 * ncithesaurus:Sphincter_Pupillae_Muscle

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## Superclasses

 * [muscle of iris](../../UBERON/06/UBERON_0001606.md)
 * [iris smooth muscle](../../UBERON/34/UBERON_0004234.md)
 * [smooth muscle sphincter](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0007521.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [iris](../../UBERON/69/UBERON_0001769.md)
 * [has_muscle_origin](../../RO/72/RO_0002372.md) some [iris](../../UBERON/69/UBERON_0001769.md)
 * [has_muscle_insertion](../../RO/73/RO_0002373.md) some [iris](../../UBERON/69/UBERON_0001769.md)
 * [has_muscle_antagonist](../../core#has/st/core#has_muscle_antagonist.md) some [dilatator pupillae](../../UBERON/08/UBERON_0001608.md)

## Equivalencies

 * ObjectIntersectionOf(<http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0004590> ObjectSomeValuesFrom(<http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/BFO_0000050> <http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001769>))

## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0001607

## External Comments

