 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0008455
 * *Label* = rectus capitis posterior minor
 * *Definition* = The Rectus capitis posterior minor (Rectus capitis posticus minor) arises by a narrow pointed tendon from the tubercle on the posterior arch of the atlas, and, widening as it ascends, is inserted into the medial part of the inferior nuchal line of the occipital bone and the surface between it and the foramen magnum, and also takes some attachment to the spinal dura. The synergists are the rectus capitus posterior major and Obliquus capitis. Connective tissue bridges were noted at the atlanto-occipital junction between the rectus capitis posterior minor muscle and the dorsal spinal dura. The perpendicular arrangement of these fibers appears to restrict dural movement toward the spinal cord. The ligamentum nuchae was found to be continuous with the posterior cervical spinal dura and the lateral portion of the occipital bone. Anatomic structures innervated by cervical nerves C1-C3 have the potential to cause headache pain. Included are the joint complexes of the upper 3 cervical segments, the dura mater, and spinal cord. The dura-muscular, dura-ligamentous connections in the upper cervical spine and occipital areas may provide anatomic and physiologic answers to the cause of the cervicogenic headache. This proposal would further explain manipulation's efficacy in the treatment of cervicogenic headache .

## Synonyms

 * lesser posterior rectus capitis
 * rectus capitis posterior minor muscle
 * musculus rectus capitis posterior minor
 * recti capitis posteriores minores
 * rectus capitis posterior minor
 * rectus capitus posterior minor
 * rectus capitus posterior minor muscle
 * rectus posterior minor

## Superclasses

 * [muscle of vertebral column](../../UBERON/18/UBERON_0004518.md)
 * [has_muscle_origin](../../RO/72/RO_0002372.md) some [posterior arch of atlas](../../UBERON/37/UBERON_0008437.md)
 * [has_muscle_insertion](../../RO/73/RO_0002373.md) some [occipital bone](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_0001676.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:32526
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = SCTID:245995001
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = Wikipedia:Rectus_capitis_posterior_minor_muscle
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/e/ed/Rectus_capitis_posterior_minor.png
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0008455

## External Comments

