 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001134
 * *Label* = skeletal muscle tissue
 * *Definition* = Muscle tissue that consists primarily of skeletal muscle fibers.
 * *Comment* = TODO - add skeletal muscle organ? See GO:0060538 skeletal muscle organ development. Todo - group FBbt:00005073 - somatic muscle.

## Synonyms

 * skeletal muscle
 * skeletal muscle system
 * somatic muscle

## Superclasses

 * [muscle tissue](../../UBERON/85/UBERON_0002385.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [skeletal muscle organ](../../UBERON/92/UBERON_0014892.md)
 * [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [myotome](../../UBERON/82/UBERON_0003082.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Muscle, composed of long cylindrical, multinucleated cells that attaches to the skeleton via tendons.[TAO]
 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Tissue which consists of skeletal muscle fibers surrounded by endomysium. Examples: Skeletal muscle tissue of biceps, Skeletal muscle tissue of diaphragm[FMA]
 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = This result implies the following views in terms of evolutionary differentiation: (1) Arthropod striated muscle and vertebrate skeletal and cardiac muscles share a common ancestor. In other words, they did not evolve independently (...) (5) The divergence of vertebrate skeletal and cardiac muscles/vertebrate smooth muscle and nonmuscle is at least before that of vertebrates/arthropods. In other words, emergence of skeletal and cardiac musle type tissues preceded the vertebrate/arthropod divergence (ca. 700 MYA).[well established][VHOG]
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:14069
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = SCTID:426215008
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = UMLS:C0242692
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = Wikipedia:Skeletal_striated_muscle
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/c/c0/Skeletal_muscle.jpg
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ncithesaurus:Skeletal_Muscle_Tissue
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0001134
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#vertebrate_core

## External Comments

