
## Class : Rathke's pouch

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0005356
 * *Label* = Rathke's pouch
 * *Definition* = a pouch of ectoderm that grows out from the upper surface of the embryonic stomodeum and gives rise to the anterior and intermediate lobes of the pituitary gland[MP]. In embryogenesis, Rathke's pouch is a depression in the roof of the developing mouth in front of the buccopharyngeal membrane. It gives rise to the anterior pituitary (adenohypophysis), a part of the endocrine system[WP].
 * *Comment* = EHDAA2 distinguishes between the adenohypophyseal pouch and it's precursor Rathke's pouch epithelium. Taxon notes: median funnel?-shaped invagination of ectoderm, the nasohypophyseal pouch. It will contribute to the formation of the pituitary gland of the adult lamprey and is homologous to Rathke’s pouch and perhaps to Hatschek 's pit (amphioxus).[http://webs.lander.edu/rsfox/invertebrates/ammocoetes.html]

## Synonyms

 * Rathke pouch
 * pouch of Rathke
 * Rathkes pouch epithelium
 * adenohypophysial pouch
 * Rathke's cleft
 * Rathke's cyst
 * Rathke's pocket
 * craniobuccal pouch
 * craniopharyngeal pouch
 * hypophyseal diverticulum
 * hypophyseal pouch
 * nasohypophyseal pouch
 * pituitary diverticulum

## Cross-references

 * AAO:0011094
 * EHDAA2:0001588
 * EMAPA:16574
 * EMAPA:16725
 * NeuroNames:1516
 * SCTID:362583008
 * SCTID:61127000
 * UMLS:C0229548
 * UMLS:C1709841
 * VHOG:0000674
 * Wikipedia:Rathke's_pouch
 * XAO:0000430
 * ncithesaurus:Rathke_Pouch_Epithelium
 * ncithesaurus:Rathke_s_Pouch

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [developing anatomical structure](../../UBERON/23/UBERON_0005423.md)
 * [epithelial sac](../../UBERON/99/UBERON_0007499.md)
 * [ecto-epithelium](../../UBERON/71/UBERON_0010371.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [head](../../UBERON/33/UBERON_0000033.md)
 * [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [stomodeum](../../UBERON/30/UBERON_0000930.md)
 * [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [adenohypophyseal placode](../../UBERON/22/UBERON_0009122.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = A depression that forms in the roof of the mouth of an embryo, anterior to the buccopharyngeal membrane. The walls of the diverticulum develop into the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland. [TFD][VHOG]
 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = It (the hypophysis) develops embryonically in all vertebrates from two ectodermal evaginations that meet and unite. An infundibulum grows ventrally from the diencephalon of the brain, and Rathke's pouch extends dorsally from the roof of the developing mouth, or stomodaeum. The infundibulum remains connected to the floor of the diencephalon, which becomes the hypothalamus, and gives rise to the part of the gland known as the neurohypophysis. (...) Rathke's pouch loses its connection with the stomodaeum in most adult vertebrates and gives rise to the rest of the gland, the adenohypophysis. (...) A well-developed hypophyseal system with functional connections to the hypothalamus is unique to craniates.[well established][VHOG]
 * *[dubious_for_taxon](../../core#dubious/on/core#dubious_for_taxon.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7955
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0005356

## External Comments

