
## Class : extra-ocular muscle

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001601
 * *Label* = extra-ocular muscle
 * *Definition* = Skeletal muscle derived from cranial mesoderm and controls eye movements.
 * *Comment* = AO notes: BTO and MA consider this part of the eye; we follow them here (inferred from skeletal muscle). Not clear if omission from FMA is deliberate. Editor notes: todo - resolve discrepancies in which muscles are considered extra-ocular. Taxon notes: Mammals have 7 extra-ocular muscles, but humans lack the M. retractor bulbi. Note in ZFA this is the set of muscles.

## Synonyms

 * extra-ocular skeletal muscle
 * extraocular muscle
 * extraocular musculature
 * extraocular skeletal muscle
 * extrinsic eye muscle
 * extrinsic muscle of eyeball
 * extrinsic ocular muscle
 * musculi externi bulbi oculi

## Cross-references

 * AAO:0010028
 * BTO:0001579
 * CALOHA:TS-0305
 * EFO:0001921
 * EHDAA2:0000482
 * EHDAA:5729
 * EMAPA:18234
 * FMA:49033
 * MA:0001271
 * SCTID:181150000
 * TAO:0000511
 * VHOG:0000549
 * Wikipedia:Extraocular_muscles
 * ZFA:0000511
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/61/MRI_of_human_eye.jpg
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/61/MRI_of_human_eye.jpg/200px-MRI_of_human_eye.jpg

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#efo_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#vertebrate_core

## Superclasses

 * [eye muscle](../../UBERON/77/UBERON_0004277.md)
 * [neural crest-derived structure](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0010313.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [skeletal muscle tissue of eye](../../UBERON/69/UBERON_0003269.md)
 * [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [extrinsic ocular pre-muscle mass](../../UBERON/30/UBERON_0006230.md)
 * [composed_primarily_of](../../UBREL/02/UBREL_0000002.md) some [skeletal muscle tissue](../../UBERON/34/UBERON_0001134.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Any of the six small muscles that control movement of the eyeball within the socket. [TFD][VHOG]
 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Muscles surrounding the eye (bulbus oculi) and having an effect on eye movements.[AAO]
 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = The ability to rotate the eyeball is common to all vertebrates with well-developed eyes, regardless of the habitat in which they live, so these (extrinsic ocular) muscles tend to be conservative. They change little during the course of evolution.[well established][VHOG]
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742
 * *[has_alternative_id](../../Id/oboInOwl#hasAlternativeId.md)* = UBERON:0006229
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0001601

## External Comments

