 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001427
 * *Label* = scaphoid
 * *Definition* = The scaphoid Bone is situated at the radial (radius bone) side of the carpus, or laterally between the manus and the forearm in standard medical posture (thumbs pointing outwards). The scaphoid bone is the largest bone of the proximal row of wrist bones, its long axis being from above downward, lateralward, and forward. It is approximately the size and shape of a medium sized cashew. The bone takes a semi-similar form of a boat. In reptiles, birds, and amphibians, this bone is instead commonly referred to as the radiale, because of its articulation with the radius. [WP,unvetted].
 * *Comment* = todo - check AAO placement; in rodents this is fused with the lunate to make the scapholunate

## Synonyms

 * navicular bone of hand
 * navicular bone of manus
 * os carpi radiale
 * scaphoid bone
 * navicular of hand
 * navicular of manus
 * os naviculare manus
 * os scaphoideum
 * radial carpal bone
 * radiale
 * scaphoideum

## Superclasses

 * [proximal carpal bone](../../UBERON/80/UBERON_0001480.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = One of two element that constitute the basal row of carpals. It articulates proximally with the radius, mesially with the ulnare (or pars intermedia of the ulnare when the ulnare is fused to the intermedium) and distally with the centrale (also recognized by some authors as element Y). This element originates from one or two condensation centers. Occasionally it may fuse to carpal 5(4), the ulnare, or other elements.[AAO]
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = AAO:0000790
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:23709
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = GAID:180
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = MA:0002555
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = MESH:A02.835.232.087.144.650
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = OpenCyc:Mx4rwAwWe5wpEbGdrcN5Y29ycA
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = SCTID:181958008
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = UMLS:C0223724
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = Wikipedia:Scaphoid
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = galen:Scaphoid
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/5/50/Carpus.png/200px-Carpus.png
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ncithesaurus:Scaphoid_Bone
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0001427
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## External Comments

