 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0002483
 * *Label* = trabecular bone tissue
 * *Definition* = Cancellous bone, synonymous with trabecular bone or spongy bone, is one of the two types of osseous tissue that form bones. Compared to compact bone, which is the other type of osseous tissue, it has a higher surface area but is less dense, softer, weaker, and less stiff. It typically occupies the interior region of bones. Cancellous bone is highly vascular and frequently contains red bone marrow where hematopoiesis, which is the production of blood cells, occurs. The primary anatomical and functional unit of cancellous bone is the trabecula. Its Latin name is substantia spongiosa or substantia spongiosa ossium. The words cancellous and trabecular refer to the tiny, lattice-shaped that form the tissue. [WP,unvetted].
 * *Comment* = one of the two types of osseous tissue that form bones. Compared to compact bone, which is the other type of osseous tissue, it has a higher surface area but is less dense, softer, weaker, and less stiff. It typically occurs at the ends of long bones, proximal to joints and within the interior of vertebrae. Cancellous bone is highly vascular and frequently contains red bone marrow where hematopoiesis, which is the production of blood cells, occurs. The primary anatomical and functional unit of cancellous bone is the trabecula.

## Synonyms

 * cancellous bone
 * cancellous bone tissue
 * spongy bone
 * spongy bone tissue
 * substantia spongiosa
 * substantia spongiosa ossium
 * trabecular bone
 * cancellated bone
 * substantia trabecularis ossium
 * trabecular substance

## Superclasses

 * [bone tissue](../../UBERON/81/UBERON_0002481.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [lamellar bone](../../UBERON/82/UBERON_0002482.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BTO:0001700
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = CALOHA:TS-0110
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:24019
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = MA:0002782
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = Wikipedia:Trabecular_bone
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/3/34/Illu_compact_spongy_bone.jpg/200px-Illu_compact_spongy_bone.jpg
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0002483
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## External Comments

