
## Class : secondary palate

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001716
 * *Label* = secondary palate
 * *Definition* = The part of the palate formed from the fusion of the two palatine shelves, extensions of the maxillary prominences.
 * *Comment* = Function notes: separates respiratory and oral passages. Taxon notes: present in mammals and some reptiles. A similar structure is found in crocodilians, but, in most other tetrapods, the oral and nasal cavities are not truly separate. The secondary palate is formed by bilateral medial extensions of maxillary processes. The extensions (palatine processes) meet at the midline, merging dorsally with nasal septum and rostrally with primary palate. The secondary palate (hard palate) separates nasal and oral cavities. Caudal extension of the secondary palate into the pharynx, forms a soft palate which divides the rostral pharynx into dorsal (nasopharynx) and ventral (oropharynx) chamber.

## Synonyms

 * definitive palate
 * oral roof
 * palatum definitivum
 * palatum secundarium
 * palate
 * palatum
 * palatum
 * roof of mouth

## Cross-references

 * BTO:0001779
 * EMAPA:18948
 * FMA:54549
 * GAID:152
 * MA:0002476
 * MESH:A14.521.658
 * SCTID:181227004
 * UMLS:C0700374
 * UMLS:C1519217
 * Wikipedia:Secondary_palate
 * galen:Palate
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/3/31/Pig_snout_sagittal_cut.jpg
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d4/Illu01_head_neck.jpg
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d4/Illu01_head_neck.jpg/200px-Illu01_head_neck.jpg
 * ncithesaurus:Palate
 * ncithesaurus:Secondary_Palate

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## Superclasses

 * [ectoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0004121.md)
 * [roof of mouth](../../UBERON/75/UBERON_0007375.md)
 * [structure with developmental contribution from neural crest](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0010314.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [mouth](../../UBERON/65/UBERON_0000165.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [upper jaw region](../../UBERON/09/UBERON_0001709.md)
 * [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [secondary palatal shelf](../../UBERON/19/UBERON_0005619.md)
 * [adjacent_to](../../RO/20/RO_0002220.md) some [oral cavity](../../UBERON/67/UBERON_0000167.md)
 * [adjacent_to](../../RO/20/RO_0002220.md) some [nasal cavity](../../UBERON/07/UBERON_0001707.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[has_relational_adjective](../../UBPROP/07/UBPROP_0000007.md)* = palatal
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0001716

## External Comments

