 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001711
 * *Label* = eyelid
 * *Definition* = An eyelid is a thin fold of skin that covers and protects an eyeball. With the exception of the prepuce and the labia minora, it has the thinnest skin of the whole body. The levator palpebrae superioris muscle retracts the eyelid to 'open' the eye. This can be either voluntarily or involuntarily. The human eyelid features a row of eyelashes which serve to heighten the protection of the eye from dust and foreign debris, as well as from perspiration. 'Palpebral' (and 'blepharo') means relating to the eyelids. Its key function is to regularly spread the tears and other secretion on the eye surface to keep it moist, since the cornea must be continuously moist. They keep the eyes from drying out when asleep. Moreover, the blink reflex protects the eye from foreign bodies. [WP,unvetted].
 * *Comment* = Each eyelid consists of the following layers, starting anteriorly: (1) skin, (2) a layer of subcutaneous connective tissue, (3) a layer of striated muscle fibres of the orbicularis muscle, (4) a layer of submuscular connective tissue, (5) a fibrous layer, including the tarsal plates, (6) a layer of smooth muscle, (7) the palpebral conjunctiva. AO notes: FMA divides this into skin, fascia, conjunctiva. Consider adding 'eye surface', like MA

## Synonyms

 * blepharon
 * palpebra
 * blephara
 * palpebrae

## Superclasses

 * [organ part](../../UBERON/64/UBERON_0000064.md)
 * [ectoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0004121.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [camera-type eye](../../UBERON/19/UBERON_0000019.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[has_relational_adjective](../../UBPROP/07/UBPROP_0000007.md)* = blepharo
 * *[has_relational_adjective](../../UBPROP/07/UBPROP_0000007.md)* = palpebral
 * *[fma_set_term](../../core#fma/rm/core#fma_set_term.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/FMA_75178
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BTO:0002241
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EHDAA2:0000487
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EHDAA:9037
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EMAPA:17829
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EV:0100338
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:54437
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = GAID:72
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = MA:0000268
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = MESH:A01.456.505.420.504
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = OpenCyc:Mx4rvVi4m5wpEbGdrcN5Y29ycA
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = SCTID:265782007
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = UMLS:C0015426
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = VHOG:0000016
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = Wikipedia:Eyelid
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/8/84/Eye_makeup.jpg
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/8/84/Eye_makeup.jpg/200px-Eye_makeup.jpg
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ncithesaurus:Eyelid
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0001711
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## External Comments

