 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001832
 * *Label* = sublingual gland
 * *Definition* = The sublingual glands are salivary glands in the mouth. They lie anterior to the submandibular gland under the tongue, beneath the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. They are drained by 8-20 excretory ducts called the ducts of Rivinus. The largest duct, the sublingual duct (of Bartholin) joins the submandibular duct to drain through the sublingual caruncle. The sublingual gland consists mostly of Mucous acini capped with serous demilunes and is therefore categorized as a mixed gland. Most of the remaining small sublingual ducts open separately into the mouth on an elevated crest of mucous membrane, the sublingual fold, caused by the gland and on either side of the frenulum linguae. The chorda tympani nerve is secretomotor to the sublingual glands. [WP,unvetted].
 * *Comment* = Single lobed in mouse; largest acini of the 3 rodent salivary glands. In human and mouse, secretions are predominantly mucinous[ISBN10:0123813611]

## Synonyms

 * Rivinus' gland
 * ductus sublingualis
 * Rivinus gland
 * glandula sublingualis
 * sublingual salivary gland
 * submaxillary gland

## Superclasses

 * [major salivary gland](../../UBERON/29/UBERON_0001829.md)
 * [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [sublingual gland primordium](../../UBERON/97/UBERON_0006297.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = One of a pair of small salivary glands situated under the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, beneath the tongue. [TFD][VHOG]
 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = Most mammals have well-developed parotid, mandibular, and sublingual glands.[well established][VHOG]
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BTO:0001315
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = CALOHA:TS-0987
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EMAPA:18809
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EV:0100062
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:59791
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = GAID:941
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = MA:0001588
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = MESH:A10.336.779.687
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = SCTID:362176005
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = UMLS:C0038553
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = VHOG:0000363
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = Wikipedia:Sublingual_gland
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/7/7d/Gray1024.png
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/7/7d/Gray1024.png/200px-Gray1024.png
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ncithesaurus:Sublingual_Salivary_Gland
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0001832
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## External Comments

