 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0003728
 * *Label* = mediastinum
 * *Definition* = The mediastinum is a non-delineated group of structures in the thorax, surrounded by loose connective tissue. It is the central compartment of the thoracic cavity. It contains the heart, the great vessels of the heart, esophagus, trachea, phrenic nerve, cardiac nerve, thoracic duct, thymus, and lymph nodes of the central chest. The mediastinum lies between the right and left pleura in and near the median sagittal plane of the chest. It extends from the sternum in front to the vertebral column behind, and contains all the thoracic viscera except the lungs. It may be divided for purposes of description into two parts:an upper portion, above the upper level of the pericardium, which is named the superior mediastinum with its superior limit at the superior thoracic opening and its inferior limit at the plane from the sternal angle to the disc of T4-T5 (Plane of Ludwig at Angle of Louis); and a lower portion, below the upper level of the pericardium. This lower portion is again subdivided into three parts, viz. that in front of the pericardium, the anterior mediastinum; that containing the pericardium and its contents, the middle mediastinum; and that behind the pericardium, the posterior mediastinum. It is surrounded by the chest wall anteriorly, the lungs laterally and the spine posteriorly. It is continuous with the loose connective tissue of the neck, and extends inferiorly onto the diaphragm.

## Synonyms

 * mediastinal part of chest

## Superclasses

 * [thoracic cavity](../../UBERON/24/UBERON_0002224.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[has_relational_adjective](../../UBPROP/07/UBPROP_0000007.md)* = mediastinal
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = CALOHA:TS-2338
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EFO:0003057
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:9826
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = GAID:94
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = MESH:A01.911.800.500
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = OpenCyc:Mx4rv2OKJ5wpEbGdrcN5Y29ycA
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = SCTID:181217005
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = UMLS:C0025066
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = Wikipedia:Mediastinum
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/ab/Mediastinum.png
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/ab/Mediastinum.png/200px-Mediastinum.png
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ncithesaurus:Mediastinum
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0003728
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#efo_slim

## External Comments

