 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0003887
 * *Label* = intraembryonic coelom
 * *Definition* = In the development of the human embryo the intraembryonic coelom (or somatic coelom) is a portion of the conceptus forming in the mesoderm. During the second week of development, the lateral mesoderm splits into a dorsal somatic mesoderm (somatopleure) and a ventral splanchnic mesoderm (splanchnopleure). The resulting cavity between the somatopleure and splanchnopleure is called the intraembryonic coelom. This space will give rise to the thoracic and abdominal cavities. It briefly has a connection with the extraembryonic coelom[WP].
 * *Comment* = Editor notes: consider merging with coelom. TODO - add spatial relationships to halves of LPM. Note the OG places XAO and ZFA coelem terms here. Todo: check ZFA, which appears to be a structure present in adults

## Synonyms

 * somatic coelom

## Superclasses

 * [body cavity precursor](../../UBERON/86/UBERON_0003886.md)
 * [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [lateral plate mesoderm](../../UBERON/81/UBERON_0003081.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* =  (...) I regard it unlikely that coeloms of all bilaterian animals are comparable and evolved very early. Considering all these questions, few convincing characters concerning the evolution of body cavities remain to be named. (...) A segmental coelom appears to have evolved at least two times, in Annelida and in Myomerata (Acrania and Craniota).[well established][VHOG]
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EHDAA:251
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EMAPA:16088
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = UMLS:C1512940
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = VHOG:0000316
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = Wikipedia:Intraembryonic_coelom
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ncithesaurus:Intraembryonic_Coelom
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0003887

## External Comments

