 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0005487
 * *Label* = vitelline vein
 * *Definition* = One of two veins which drain blood from the yolk sac. They run upward at first in front, and subsequently on either side of the intestinal canal. They unite on the ventral aspect of the canal, and beyond this are connected to one another by two anastomotic branches, one on the dorsal, and the other on the ventral aspect of the duodenal portion of the intestine, which is thus encircled by two venous rings; into the middle or dorsal anastomosis the superior mesenteric vein opens. The portions of the veins above the upper ring become interrupted by the developing liver and broken up by it into a plexus of small capillary-like vessels termed sinusoids.
 * *Comment* = AO notes: check zfa (no text def). Check vitelline/omphalomesenteric distinction in XAO

## Synonyms

 * embryonic vitelline vein
 * vena vitellina
 * omphalomesenteric vein
 * vein of omphalomesenteric system

## Superclasses

 * [embryonic structure](../../UBERON/50/UBERON_0002050.md)
 * [systemic vein](../../UBERON/40/UBERON_0013140.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [systemic venous system](../../UBERON/81/UBERON_0004581.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = One of two veins that run upward at first in front, and subsequently on either side of the intestinal canal. They unite on the ventral aspect of the canal, and beyond this are connected to one another by two anastomotic branches, one on the dorsal, and the other on the ventral aspect of the duodenal portion of the intestine, which is thus encircled by two venous rings; into the middle or dorsal anastomosis the superior mesenteric vein opens. The portions of the veins above the upper ring become interrupted by the developing liver and broken up by it into a plexus of small capillary-like vessels termed sinusoids.[XAO]
 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = Within each vertebrate group, the veins compose a few main functional systems that arise embryologically from what seems to be a common developmental pattern. (...) Early in development, three major sets of paired veins are present: the vitelline veins from the yolk sac, the cardinal veins from the body of the embryo itself, and the lateral abdominal veins from the pelvic region. The paired vitelline veins are among the first vessels to appear in the embryo. They arise over the yolk and follow the yolk stalk into the body. They then turn anteriorly, continue along the gut, and enter the sinus venosus.[well established][VHOG]
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EMAPA:16244
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EMAPA:16379
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EMAPA:26151
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:70305
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = RETIRED_EHDAA2:0002209
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = SCTID:2730004
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = SCTID:308832003
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = TAO:0005035
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = UMLS:C0231091
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = VHOG:0000401
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = Wikipedia:Vitelline_veins
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = XAO:0000376
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = XAO:0004147
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ZFA:0005035
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/7/7e/Gray475.png
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ncithesaurus:Vitelline_Vein
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0005487
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#vertebrate_core

## External Comments

