 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0002261
 * *Label* = dorsal root of spinal cord
 * *Definition* = The dorsal roots contain afferent sensory axons. The dorsal roots of each side continue outwards, along the way forming a dorsal root ganglion (also called a spinal ganglion).
 * *Comment* = FMA xref is 'general anatomical term'. We xref both to ensure equivalence.

## Synonyms

 * dorsal root
 * dorsal root of spinal nerve
 * dorsal spinal nerve root
 * dorsal spinal root
 * posterior root of spinal nerve
 * radix dorsalis
 * radix posterior (nervus spinalis)
 * radix sensoria (nervus spinalis)
 * sensory root of spinal nerve
 * dorsal roots
 * radix posterior
 * radix posterior nervi spinalis
 * root dorsali nervi spinalis
 * root sensoria nervi spinalis
 * sensory spinal root

## Superclasses

 * [spinal nerve root](../../UBERON/23/UBERON_0009623.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = In anatomy and neurology, the dorsal root (or posterior root) is the afferent sensory root of a spinal nerve. At the distal end of the dorsal root is the dorsal root ganglion, which contains the neuron cell bodies of the nerve fibres conveyed by the root. If the dorsal root of a spinal nerve were severed it would lead to numbness in certain areas of the body. The lateral division of the dorsal root contains lightly myelinated and unmyelinated axons of small diameter. These transmit pain and temperature sensation from the body. These fibers cross through the anterior white commissure to form the Anterior lateral system in the lateral funiculus. The medial division of the dorsal root contains myelinated axons of larger diameter. These transmit information of discriminative touch, pressure, vibration, and conscious proprioception originating from spinal levels C2 through S5. These fibers are pushed in towards the posterior medial sulcus to form the fasciculus gracilis and the fasciculus cuneatus. [WP,unvetted][Wikipedia:Posterior_root_of_spinal_nerve].
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BAMS:drt
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = BTO:0000360
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:5980
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = NIF_GrossAnatomy:nlx_anat_20090208
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = NeuroNames:1661
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = SCTID:362436008
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = TAO:0000652
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = UMLS:C0205955
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = Wikipedia:Posterior_root_of_spinal_nerve
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ZFA:0000652
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d2/Spinal_nerve.svg
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d2/Spinal_nerve.svg/200px-Spinal_nerve.svg.png
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ncithesaurus:Dorsal_Root_of_the_Spinal_Nerve
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0002261
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#vertebrate_core

## External Comments

