
## Class : vitelline duct

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0007105
 * *Label* = vitelline duct
 * *Definition* = In the human embryo, the vitelline duct, also known as the omphalomesenteric duct, is a long narrow tube that joins the yolk-sac to the midgut lumen of the developing fetus. It appears at the end of the fourth week, when the yolk-sac presents the appearance of a small pear-shaped vesicle (the umbilical vesicle). The vesicle can be seen in the afterbirth as a small, somewhat oval-shaped body whose diameter varies from 1 mm to 5 mm. It is situated between the amnion and the chorion and may lie on or at a varying distance from the placenta. Generally, the duct fully obliterates (narrows and disappears) during the seventh week, but a failure of the duct to close is termed a vitelline fistula. This results in discharge of meconium from the umbilicus. About two per cent of fetuses exhibit a type of vitelline fistula characterized by persistence of the proximal part of the vitelline duct as a diverticulum protruding from the small intestine, Meckel's diverticulum, which is situated about two feet above the ileocecal junction, and may be attached by a fibrous cord to the abdominal wall at the umbilicus. Sometimes a narrowing of the lumen of the ileum is seen opposite the site of attachment of the duct.

## Synonyms

 * ductus vitellinus
 * embryonic yolk stalk
 * omphalomesenteric duct
 * omphalomesenteric duct
 * yolk duct
 * yolk-stalk

## Cross-references

 * EMAPA:26139
 * GAID:1314
 * MESH:A16.254.891
 * SCTID:280701007
 * Wikipedia:Vitelline_duct
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/8/8c/Gray30.png

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [tube](../../UBERON/25/UBERON_0000025.md)
 * [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [midgut](../../UBERON/45/UBERON_0001045.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0007105

## External Comments

