 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0002063
 * *Label* = sinus venosus
 * *Definition* = The sinus venosus is a large quadrangular cavity which precedes the atrium on the venous side of the chordate heart. In humans, it exists distinctly only in the embryonic heart, where it is found between the two venae cavae. In the adult, it is incorporated into the wall of the right atrium to form a smooth part called the sinus venarum, also known as the venarum sinus, which is separated from the rest of the atrium by a ridge of fibres called the crista terminalis. The sinus venosus also forms the SA node and the coronary sinus. In the embryo, the thin walls of the sinus venosus are connected below with the right ventricle, and medially with the left atrium, but are free in the rest of their extent. It receives blood from the vitelline vein, umbilical vein and common cardinal vein. It originally starts as a paired structure but shifts towards associating only with the right atrium as the embryonic heart develops. The left portion shrinks in size and eventually forms the coronary sinus and oblique vein of the left atrium, whereas the right part becomes incorporated into the right atrium to form the sinus venarum.
 * *Comment* = In zebrafish, "the sinus venosus also acts as a pacemaker and is the first to contract"[ZFA:0000154]

## Synonyms

 * inflow tract
 * sinus venarum
 * sinus venosus cordis
 * venarum
 * venarum sinus
 * venosus

## Superclasses

 * [cardiac chamber](../../UBERON/51/UBERON_0004151.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [conducting system of heart](../../UBERON/50/UBERON_0002350.md)
 * [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [presumptive sinus venosus](../../UBERON/78/UBERON_0007278.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Heart region collecting blood from the paired common cardinal veins and delivering to the atrium. One of four components of the heart. The sinus venosus also acts as a pacemaker and is the first to contract. Kimmel et al, 1995.[TAO]
 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Part of the circulatory system which receives blood from the systemic veins and contracts to pump the blood into the atrium of the heart.[AAO]
 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = In the primitive vertebrate heart the four chambers are: 1. Sinus venosus (...) 2. Atrium (...) 3. Ventricle (...) 4. Conus arteriosus (...).[well established][VHOG]
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = AAO:0010505
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EHDAA2:0001839
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EHDAA:480
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EMAPA:16237
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:70303
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = TAO:0000154
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = UMLS:C0225857
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = UMLS:C0231084
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = VHOG:0000177
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = Wikipedia:Sinus_venosus
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ZFA:0000154
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/c/c7/Gray465.png
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/c/c7/Gray465.png/200px-Gray465.png
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ncithesaurus:Sinus_Venarum
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ncithesaurus:Sinus_Venosus
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0002063
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#vertebrate_core

## External Comments

