 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0005463
 * *Label* = marginal sinus of lymph node
 * *Definition* = The subcapsular sinus (lymph path, lymph sinus, marginal sinus) is a region within the lymph node immediately deep to the capsule that contains relatively sparse lymphocytes. It thus allows lymph to flow freely through it. The lymph node contains lymphoid tissue, i.e. , a meshwork or fibers called reticulum with white blood cells enmeshed in it. The regions where there are few cells within the meshwork are known lymph sinus. It is lined by reticular cells, fibroblasts and fixed macrophages. Thus, subcapsular (sub=below) sinus lies immediately deep to the capsule of the lymph node and immediately above the cortex. It is continuous with the similar lymph sinuses that flank the trabeculae (the extensions of capsule within the substance of the lymph node). The subcapsular sinus is of clinical importance as it is the most likely location where the earliest manifestations of a metastatic carcinoma in a lymph node would be found.
 * *Comment* = todo - add syns to disambiguate from rodent speen marginal sinus

## Synonyms

 * marginal sinus
 * lymph path
 * lymph sinus
 * subcapsular sinus

## Superclasses

 * [vein](../../UBERON/38/UBERON_0001638.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [lymph node](../../UBERON/29/UBERON_0000029.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EHDAA2:0001064
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EHDAA:8693
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = FMA:50766
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = SCTID:361511003
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = UMLS:C1518051
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = UMLS:C1518052
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = Wikipedia:Subcapsular_sinus
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/68/Gray597.png
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ncithesaurus:Lymph_Node_Sinus
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ncithesaurus:Lymph_Node_Subcapsular_Sinus
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0005463

## External Comments

