
## Class : parieto-occipital sulcus

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0002695
 * *Label* = parieto-occipital sulcus
 * *Definition* = Only a small part of the Parietooccipital Fissure (or parieto-occipital sulcus) is seen on the lateral surface of the hemisphere, its chief part being on the medial surface. The lateral part of the parietooccipital fissure (Fig. 726) is situated about 5 cm. in front of the occipital pole of the hemisphere, and measures about 1.25 cm. in length. The medial part of the parietooccipital fissure (Fig. 727) runs downward and forward as a deep cleft on the medial surface of the hemisphere, and joins the calcarine fissure below and behind the posterior end of the corpus callosum. In most cases it contains a submerged gyrus. [WP,unvetted].
 * *Comment* = AO notes - two classes in ncit (in general ncit distinguishes between fissue and sulcus, whereas FMA treats these as exact synonyms)

## Synonyms

 * fissura parieto-occipitalis
 * parieto-occipital fissure
 * parieto-occipital incisure
 * parietooccipital sulcus
 * sulcus parieto-occipitalis
 * sulcus parieto-occipitalis medialis
 * sulcus parietoccipitalis
 * sulcus parietooccipitalis
 * pos
 * fissura parietooccipitalis
 * posterior orbital sulcus
 * sulcus parietooccipitalis

## Cross-references

 * BAMS:pocs
 * BAMS:pos
 * BM:Tel-Cx-POS
 * FMA:83754
 * NIF_GrossAnatomy:birnlex_1428
 * NeuroNames:52
 * OpenCyc:Mx4rv7l_DJwpEbGdrcN5Y29ycA
 * SCTID:279354009
 * UMLS:C0228191
 * UMLS:C1744592
 * Wikipedia:Parieto-occipital_sulcus
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/5/5d/Gray726_parieto-occipital_sulcus.png
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/5/5d/Gray726_parieto-occipital_sulcus.png/200px-Gray726_parieto-occipital_sulcus.png
 * ncithesaurus:Parieto-occipital_Fissure
 * ncithesaurus:Parieto-occipital_Sulcus

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim

## Superclasses

 * [subarachnoid sulcus](../../UBERON/34/UBERON_0008334.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0002695

## External Comments

