
## Class : coracoid process of scapula

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0006633
 * *Label* = coracoid process of scapula
 * *Definition* = A process of the scapula in most mammals reprsenting the remnant of the coracoid bone of lower vertebrates thas has become fused with the scapula.
 * *Comment* = In humans is situated on its superior border and serves for the attachment of various muscles

## Synonyms

 * coracoid process
 * coracoid process of the scapula
 * processus coracoideus

## Cross-references

 * EMAPA:25121
 * FMA:13455
 * SCTID:181912007
 * Wikipedia:Coracoid_process
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/a6/Gray205_left_scapula_lateral_view.png

## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [zone of bone organ](../../UBERON/13/UBERON_0005913.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [scapula](../../UBERON/49/UBERON_0006849.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = The coracoid process is a small hook-like structure on the lateral edge of the superior anterior portion of the scapula. Pointing laterally forward, it, together with the acromion, serves to stabilize the shoulder joint. It is palpable in the deltopectoral groove between the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles. It is the site of attachment for several structures: * The pectoralis minor muscle - to 3rd to 5th ribs. * The short head of biceps brachii muscle - to Radial tuberosity. * The coracobrachialis muscle - to medial humerus. * The coracoclavicular ligament - to the clavicle. (The ligament is formed by the conoid ligament and trapezoid ligament.) * The coracoacromial ligament - to the acromion[WP][Wikipedia:Coracoid_process].
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0006633

## External Comments

