 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0005497
 * *Label* = non-neural ectoderm
 * *Comment* = Development notes: After gastrulation, neural crest cells are specified at the border of the neural plate and the non-neural ectoderm. Editor note: todo - epidermis? todo - track down EHDAA2 class in new release // Gene notes: One of the first genes to be expressed in nonneural ectoderm in amphioxus is BMP2/4 (Panopoulou et al. 1998). BMP2/4 homologues appear to have a very ancient role in distinguishing neural from nonneural ectoderm; in Drosophila as well as in amphioxus and vertebrates, BMP2/4 homologues are expressed in nonneural ectoderm and function in distinguishing neural from nonneural ectoderm (Francois & Bier, 1995 ; Sasai et al. 1995 ; Wilson & Hemmati-Brivanlou, 1995; Panopoulou et al. 1998). A change in level of BMP2/4 from very high in nonneural ectoderm to low in neural ectoderm appears to be a key factor in development of neural crest (Baker & Bronner-Fraser,1997a,1997b;Erickson&Reedy,1998;Marchantet al.1998 ;Selleck et al. 1998)

## Synonyms

 * non neural ectoderm
 * ventral ectoderm
 * epidermal ectoderm
 * epithelial ectoderm
 * surface ectoderm

## Superclasses

 * [tissue](../../UBERON/79/UBERON_0000479.md)
 * [ectoderm-derived structure](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0004121.md)
 * [develops_from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [ectoderm](../../UBERON/24/UBERON_0000924.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* = In the early gastrula of vertebrates, factors from the organizer (e.g. noggin, chordin, and follistatin in Xenopus) antagonize the epidermalizing factor bone morphogenetic protein 4 (BMP4), thus dividing the epiblast into neuroectoderm. In Drosophila, decapentaplegic, the homologue of BMP4, interacts similarly with the protein short gastrulation, the homologue of chordin. Thus, a comparable molecular mechanism for distinguishing non-neural ectoderm from neural ectoderm was probably present in the common ancestor of all bilaterally symmetrical animals.[well established][VHOG]
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EFO:0003643
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EHDAA:257
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = EMAPA:16074
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = RETIRED_EHDAA2:0001273
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = TAO:0001178
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = VHOG:0001372
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = XAO:0004091
 * *[database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md)* = ZFA:0001178
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0005497
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#efo_slim
 * *[in_subset](../../et/oboInOwl#inSubset.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#vertebrate_core

## External Comments

