
## Class : dorsal plus ventral thalamus

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001897
 * *Label* = dorsal plus ventral thalamus
 * *Definition* = A midline paired symmetrical structure within the brains of vertebrates, including humans. It is situated between the cerebral cortex and midbrain, both in terms of location and neurological connections. Its function includes relaying sensation, special sense and motor signals to the cerebral cortex, along with the regulation of consciousness, sleep and alertness. The thalamus surrounds the third ventricle. It is the main product of the embryonic diencephalon.
 * *Comment* = AO notes: MA and ZFA think there is a distinct dorsal thalamus, but FMA says its an exact synonym. FMA has a distinct class for thalamic complex.

## Synonyms

 * wider thalamus
 * Th
 * Th
 * thalamus
 * thalamencephalon
 * thalami
 * thalamus opticus

## Cross-references

 * AAO:0010483
 * ABA:TH
 * BAMS:TH
 * BAMS:Th
 * BTO:0001365
 * CALOHA:TS-1031
 * EFO:0000910
 * EMAPA:17540
 * EV:0100195
 * GAID:656
 * MA:0000179
 * MAT:0000109
 * MESH:A08.186.211.730.385.826
 * MIAA:0000109
 * NIF_GrossAnatomy:birnlex_954
 * NeuroNames:300
 * OpenCyc:Mx4rwMPQ65wpEbGdrcN5Y29ycA
 * SCTID:244433007
 * TAO:0001215
 * UMLS:C0039729
 * UMLS:C0039729
 * VHOG:0000657
 * Wikipedia:Thalamus
 * ZFA:0001215
 * galen:Thalamus
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/c/ce/Brain_chrischan_thalamus.jpg
 * http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/c/ce/Brain_chrischan_thalamus.jpg/200px-Brain_chrischan_thalamus.jpg
 * ncithesaurus:Thalamus

## Subsets

 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#efo_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#uberon_slim
 * http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/uberon/core#vertebrate_core

## Superclasses

 * [regional part of diencephalon](../../UBERON/84/UBERON_0002784.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [thalamic complex](../../UBERON/25/UBERON_0010225.md)
 * [in_lateral_side_of](../../BSPO/26/BSPO_0000126.md) some [thalamic complex](../../UBERON/25/UBERON_0010225.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = One of a pair of large oval nervous structures made of gray matter and forming most of the lateral walls of the third ventricle of the brain and part of the diencephalon. [TFD][VHOG]
 * *[external_definition](../../UBPROP/01/UBPROP_0000001.md)* = Part of the diencephalon consisting of a mass of connecting fibers which relay sensory information to the cerebral cortex.[AAO]
 * *[homology_notes](../../UBPROP/03/UBPROP_0000003.md)* =  (...) the brain regions of tetrapods, the structures they contain, and their basic organizational features are the same as in fishes.[well established][VHOG]
 * *[has_relational_adjective](../../UBPROP/07/UBPROP_0000007.md)* = thalamic
 * *[homologous_in](../../core#homologous/in/core#homologous_in.md)* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7742
 * *[has_obo_namespace](../../ce/oboInOwl#hasOBONamespace.md)* = uberon
 * *[oboInOwl#id](../../id/oboInOwl#id.md)* = UBERON:0001897

## External Comments

